---
title: Pol Pot
summary: His Legacy of Brutality Haunts Cambodia
byline: Ten Soksreinith
metrics-byline: Soksreinith, Ten

image: https://gdb.voanews.com/FF3CE5B8-9908-493D-9F05-2F34892776C2_cy10_w1023_s.jpg
mugshot: /img/bio__pol-pot__thumbnail.jpg
cutline: A man cleans a skull near a mass grave at the Chaung Ek torture camp run by the Khmer Rouge. 
credit: Jeff Widener | AP

translation: /khmer/biography/pol-pot.html

date:   2015-03-01
categories: biography
layout: biography
language: english
---


Saloth Sar, who under his revolutionary name of Pol Pot led the brutal Khmer Rouge, was born into a large farming family on May 19, 1925, in a village near Kompong Thom. When he was 6 years old, his parents sent him to live with relatives for his education and Pol Pot attended school in Phnom Penh. He went to trade school for carpentry after failing the high school admissions exam. 

In 1949, he received a government scholarship. He studied radio technology for three years in France where he latched onto the French Communist party, then a stronghold of Stalinists. 

Pol Pot published an attack on Cambodian royalty while living in Paris, and King Norodom Sihanouk, responded by giving Pol Pot’s outlook a name, the Khmer Rouge, or Red Cambodians. 

In 1953, Pol Pot returned to Cambodia, where he emerged as a leading local Communist. He fled in 1963, fearing arrest, going first to Vietnam, then to China, which was on the eve of the [Cultural Revolution](https://www.nytimes.com/2016/05/15/world/asia/china-cultural-revolution-explainer.html), before going into hiding in the Cambodian jungle. From there, he led the Khmer Rouge movement, which had 3,000 armed fighters by 1970. 

The ranks of the Khmer Rouge then swelled with disenchanted peasants as the U.S. bombed Cambodia to prevent a Communist victory over the Khmer Republic led by Gen. Lon Nol.

Pol Pot’s Khmer Rouge forces occupied Phnom Penh -- silently -- on <a href="#april_17_1975" class="trigger__factbox">April 17</a>, just days after the general fled with his family to Thailand, en route to the U.S. 

For the next four years, Pol Pot “purified” Cambodia, killing at least 1.7 million people, or nearly a quarter of the population in a quest to create an agrarian utopia for worker-peasants. 

In 1978, Pol Pot attacked Vietnam, which responded by occupying Cambodia and ending Pol Pot’s rule in early 1979. After the signing of the Paris Peace Accords in 1991, he returned to Cambodia’s jungles from a refuge in Thailand. 
 
Former associates turned on him in 1997, and in what was seen as a show trial, he was convicted of crimes against humanity and sentenced to house arrest for life. He died in the jungle of Oddar Meanchey province on April 15, 1998. 


{% include photo.html

file="https://gdb.voanews.com/C9BA17E4-B210-4B59-93DE-A71EF97DF911_w1023_s.jpg"
caption="Pol Pot (2nd R), notorious leader of Cambodia's Khmer Rouge, is shown in a rare photograph with other Khmer Rouge leaders at a camp in Western Cambodia in January 1986. In June 1997, Pol Pot ordered the assassination of Son Sen (left)."
credit="(Reuters)"
alt="Pol Pot stands, second from the right, with other Khmer Rouge leaders."

%}

