---
title: Lon Nol
summary: U.S.-backed General Lon Nol led a coup that toppled King Norodom Sihanouk, before being forced out of the country by the Khmer Rouge in 1975.
byline: Soksreinith Ten
metrics-byline: Soksreinith Ten

image: https://gdb.voanews.com/3C22C389-0F6C-4408-9748-F798D8AABD3A_w1023_s.jpg
mugshot: /img/bio__lon-nol__mugshot.jpg
cutline: President of Cambodia's new Salvation Government, Gen. Lon Nol, reads a statement telling mass rally today that Cambodia will become a republic in near future, Phnom Penh, April 11, 1970.
credit: AP

translation: /khmer/biography/lon-nol.html

date:   2015-02-01
categories: biography
layout: biography
language: english
---


Born on November 13, 1913, on the Vietnamese border in Prey Veng province to a government official family, Lon Nol attended elementary school in Phnom Penh before heading to the Lycee Chasseloup-Laubat in Saigon for high school. Prince Norodom Sihanouk was a fellow student.

After graduating in 1934, Lon Nol entered the civil service, which set him on a career of increasingly important administrative posts, including the governorship of Kratie province as the Japanese were being expelled at the close of World War II.

By 1949, Lon Nol was in Phnom Penh as the director of the administrative service, a post he held until migrating to the military, where he began his climb through the ranks with an initial appointment as a lieutenant colonel with command of an infantry battalion.

In 1955, he became military chief of staff in Phnom Penh, then defense minister. In 1966, Prince Sihanouk appointed Lon Nol as prime minister, a job that involved nationwide travel and gave him a chance to build networks at the local level. 

After he was seriously injured in a car accident in 1967, Lon Nol resigned only for the prince to recall him in <a href="#march_1970" class="trigger__factbox">1969</a> as Cambodia faced an economic crisis and rampant corruption. Months later, as Sihanouk was in Moscow for medical treatment, Lon Nol ordered the closure of airports and borders and convened the parliament to overthrow the prince. 

The staunch anti-Communist [ruled](http://articles.latimes.com/1985-11-18/news/mn-7294_1_lon-nol-cambodians) over what was declared the Khmer Republic, presiding over the buildup of the Cambodian Army from a force of 37,000 to more than 150,000. U.S. aid funded the expansion as American aircraft resumed bombing Vietcong bases inside Cambodia, and ground troops, assisted by Vietnamese forces, entered Cambodia to root out the Vietcong.



{% include photo.html

file="/img/bio__lon-nol__and__john-dean.jpg"
caption="New U.S. Ambassador to Cambodia John Gunther Dean confers with Cambodian President Lon Nol after presenting a credential letter in Phnom Penh, April 5, 1974."
credit="(Huor | AP)"
alt="John Gunther Dean, confers with Cambodian President Lon Nol"

%}



But with massive infusions of foreign aid money came corruption, and funds meant to feed Cambodian troops flowed elsewhere. Rural Cambodian grew disenchanted with the hungry soldiers foraging in their villages, and from 1970 to 1975, the Marxist-Leninist Khmer Rouge grew from several thousand guerrillas to a force of about 30,000 as they waged a civil war against the government. 

On April 1, 1975, two weeks before the <a href="#april_17_1975" class="trigger__factbox">Khmer Rouge overran Phnom Penh</a>, Lon Nol [boarded](https://www.cambodiadaily.com/news/inside-view-lon-nols-helicopter-exit-ahead-of-khmer-rouge-55630/) a helicopter escaping the country with his family to Thailand before settling in the U.S. He lived quietly in Hawaii, before moving to Fullerton, California, where he died in 1985.
