---
title: Hun Sen
summary: Prime Minister Hun Sen is one of the longest-serving political leaders in world history, having held power in Cambodia in various coalitions since 1985. He is currently the president of the ruling Cambodian People’s Party (CPP). 
byline: Chenda Hong and Ten Soksreinith
metrics-byline: Soksreinith, Ten; Hong, Chenda

image: https://gdb.voanews.com/F74D50E0-981D-472A-A89E-382ECF74A6BB_cy11_w1023_s.jpg
mugshot: /img/bio__hun-sen__mugshot.jpg
cutline: Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen attends the funeral ceremony of Chea Sim, Cambodia's late former senate president and head of the ruling Cambodian People's Party (CPP), in Phnom Penh, June 2015.
credit: Samrang Pring | Reuters

translation: /khmer/biography/hun-sen.html

date: 2015-07-01
categories: biography
layout: biography
language: english
---


Hun Sen was born on August 5, 1952, to a farming family in <a href="https://projects.voanews.com/cambodia-election-2018/english/feature/hun-sen-hometown.html">Kampong Cham province</a>. Like many Cambodians, Hun Sen later changed his birth date. He added 16 months with his new birth date of April 4, 1951. He received his secondary education in Phnom Penh while living as a pagoda boy at Wat Neakavoan.

In the late 1960s, he formally joined the Marxist-Leninist Kampuchean People’s Revolutionary Party, later known as the Khmer Rouge. He fought with the communist forces as they took over the country in 1975 and declared an ultra-Maoist government. While serving as the chief of special regimental staff of the Khmer Rouge in the Eastern Zone, he lost his left eye in battle.

In 1977, Hun Sen and others fled to neighboring Vietnam, Cambodia’s historical enemy. In 1978, Hun Sen joined Heng Samrin in organizing a Vietnam-sponsored military effort, the Kampuchea National Front for National Salvation, to overthrow the Khmer Rouge. When the Khmer Rouge collapsed on <a href="#jan_7_1979" class="trigger__factbox">January 7, 1979</a>, the front became the People’s Republic of Kampuchea, a communist regime backed by Vietnam. 

After the fall of the Khmer Rouge, Vietnam appointed Hun Sen as the foreign minister of the People’s Republic of Kampuchea, and in <a href="#jan_14_1985" class="trigger__factbox">1985</a> he was elected by the National Assembly to replace Prime Minister Chan Si, who had died in Moscow while being treated for a cardiac ailment. After the Paris Peace Accords were signed in <a href="#oct_23_1991" class="trigger__factbox">October 1991</a>, Hun Sen and his party, now named the Cambodian People’s Party (CPP), participated in U.N.-monitored elections in <a href="#may_23-28_1993" class="trigger__factbox">1993</a>. The CPP lost to the royalist party, FUNCINPEC, led by Norodom Ranariddh, but Hun Sen refused to step down. After King Norodom Sihanouk intervened, Hun Sen managed to remain in power as the second prime minister in a ruling coalition with FUNCINPEC, and the CPP preserved much of its political dominance, particularly in rural areas. 



{% include photo.html

	file="https://gdb.voanews.com/010FDCAA-1E88-444B-92AB-B9FDEDC6B7DE_w1023_s.jpg"
	caption="In this April 19, 1997, file photo, then-Cambodian Second Prime Minister Hun Sen smokes a cigarette during a news conference held in his compound at Takhamao, south of Phnom Penh, Cambodia."
	credit="(Charles Dharapak | AP)"

%}



Both political parties continued jockeying for power and military supremacy, and competed to recruit the remnants of the Khmer Rouge into their own military factions, leading to the eruption of violent street battles in <a href="#july_1997" class="trigger__factbox">1997</a> that forced Norodom Ranariddh to flee the country. With its primary opposition badly weakened, the CPP won the second national elections in <a href="#july_26_1998" class="trigger__factbox">1998</a>, and Hun Sen has held power ever since. 
