---
title: Kem Sokha
summary: Kem Sokha, a prominent human rights advocate and politician, heads the Cambodia National Rescue Party. Since September 2017, he has been imprisoned for treason.
byline: Chenda Hong and Ten Soksreinith
metrics-byline: Soksreinith, Ten; Hong, Chenda

image: https://gdb.voanews.com/FEA115F1-FF31-4708-A42A-1ACFD9AE981B_w1023_s.jpg
mugshot: /img/bio__kem-sokha__mugshot.jpg
cutline: Kem Sokha, former chairman of the Cambodian parliament's human rights commission, center, greets the press as he leaves the Phnom Penh Municipal Court in Cambodia Tuesday, Dec. 15, 1998.
credit: Ou Neakiry | AP

date: 2015-06-01
categories: biography
layout: biography
language: english
---


Born on June 27, 1953, Kem Sokha grew up in Takeo province. He studied law at the Royal University of Law and Economics in Phnom Penh before the beginning of the Khmer Rouge regime in 1975. After the regime fell in 1979, he became a commune chief in Phnom Penh. Kem Sokha then won a scholarship to study in Prague, Czech Republic, and received a master’s degree in biochemistry in 1986. 

Kem Sokha began his political career in 1993 when he joined Son Sann’s Buddhist Liberal Democratic Party (BLDP). He was elected as the representative for Takeo province in the 1993 national elections. In 1999, he joined the royalist FUNCINPEC party, and was later elected as a senator.  

In 2002, Kem Sokha announced he was leaving politics and founded a human rights group called the Cambodian Center for Human Rights (CCHR). He left the center to establish a new political party called Human Rights Party (HRP) in <a href="#july_2007" class="trigger__factbox">2007</a>.



{% include photo.html

file="/img/bio__kem-sokha__marching.jpg"
caption="Cambodia's main opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party vice president Kem Sokha, center, waves during a protest rally in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, Monday, May 20, 2013. "
credit="(Heng Sinith | AP)"

%}



In <a href="#july_17_2012" class="trigger__factbox">2012</a>, the HRP merged with the Sam Rainsy Party (SRP) to form the Cambodia National Rescue Party (CNRP). Kem Sokha, who had proven a popular political figure due to his charisma and oratorical skills, became the vice president of the CNRP. Kem Sokha took over as president of the CNRP in <a href="#march_2017" class="trigger__factbox">March 2017</a> after Sam Rainsy resigned. On <a href="#sept_3_2017" class="trigger__factbox">September 3, 2017</a>, Kem Sokha was arrested over allegations of treason, accused by the government of conspiring with the United States to oust Hun Sen from power. He has denied the charges and says his only goal was to take power democratically through winning the next election. Since his arrest, he has been jailed at a maximum-security prison on the Vietnamese border. 
